Email 1:
Hi Thea,
Justin from the Balourdet Quartet gave me your contact information. I was formerly in the Omer Quartet (NEC quartet program '17) and was speaking with one of my old contacts in the Boston area, and she mentioned she would like to remain connected with the NEC program for possible concert opportunities for quartet-in-residence/student groups.

She's chair of the music committee at the Brookhaven at Lexington and we played for their audiences very frequently, especially when we prepared for competitions. Their fees were pretty good for an assisted living community. They just recently built a new concert hall and are interested to expand their upcoming seasons. Are you the right person to put in touch with her?

Warmly,
Mason


Email 2:
Hi Taylor!

I'm a few hours away from Chicago and wanted to make sure everything is all set. Is there a place to unload the U-Haul that I should park? And, is there a dolly to help with boxes?

949-241-3291

Thanks!

Mason

Email 3:
Hey Matthew,
Thank you so much for having us the other day, it was great to rehearse there. I wanted to confirm that we will be coming again tomorrow , I'm going to be arriving around 515-520, is that okay?

Also I would be happy to continue the conversation we started if you have any additional ideas or questions about your marketing and networking. 
See you soon
Mason

Email 4:
Hey Alex
took me a few days to get back to you, but Jonathan would love to get on Omni's Long Game podcast. As I'm sure you know he's doing some cool stuff with AI + SEO.

Jonathan - Alex is one of Omniscient Digital's founders, premium content marketing agency and one of the smartest guys I know. He came up with Semrush's Surround Sound metric (formerly a Hubspot product)

Hope you all hit it off!
Mason

Email 5:
Hi Katie,

I very much appreciate your email and I'm excited to be a Kilts Fellow! I was going to reach out to one of the admissions directors to inquire about what the status entails, so your email comes in a very timely manner. I feel so lucky to enjoy these resources!

I just registered for next week's panel, though moving boxes may still grace my background (my apartment's move-in is the day before!).

I look forward to connecting with former Kilts alumni and exploring product management /growth & marketing functions.

Warmly,
Mason

Email 6:
Hi Shauna!
Hope you're doing well, greetings from Korea where I'm currently staying for the next few weeks!

My next potential landlord in Chicago may be contacting you to verify my rental information I put down for Galtier Towers. Just giving you a heads up that it will likely come from Horizon Realty Group, the POC was Sarah  at snegron@horizonrealtygroup.com

Thanks for your assistance!
Mason

Email 7:
Hi Dan
Thanks for organizing the alumni reunion - I was definitely a bit nervous to join, but am super glad I did! Wonderful to see everyone on screen again! It was great to hear updates about what the performers are doing, as well as hear from the new artist managers. Awesome to learn about the new initiatives with artist development, YCA on tour & alumni mentors. 
I also have to give props to you & the team for the impressive growth of net new concert opportunities AND payment for the artist roster compared to 2 years ago.  That is truly an amazing feat and I'm sure you're very proud of that. 

I know we had sort of a time crunch at the end (I loved what Pinchas discussed and also thought he'd be the perfect guy to go to Congress himself!) so I'd love to give a bit more of an update below:

- Marketing is going great and I'm loving my second career. There is a great mix of analytics, creativity & strategy, and I've been able to do some hiring, team training, company budgets & forecasting, which has been really exciting. Of course, I always have one ear on the music industry and the alumni reunion was great to get a pulse on that. I didn't realize that Covid was still a real factor & impact on concerts - in St. Paul, this has more or less disappeared from the vocabulary. Audience behavior seems to have shifted a bit though, maybe that's what was meant? 

- I'm going to Booth School of Business in Chicago this fall (Just connected with Stephen Burns - anyone else you think I should meet with there?) Mainly, I'm still ambitious and looking to get bigger opportunities in technology and one of my intentions is to  also explore non-profit board work

- In terms of music, I've been guest lecturing at the Juilliard School for the pedagogy class on marketing your music studio. I also did a small consulting project for Kinetic Ensemble, a chamber orchestra based in Houston (Google Ads, Facebook ads, Analytics, etc)

How's YCA been, besides the updates you shared? What challenges are you solving these days?

Warmly,
Mason


Email 8:
Hi Ben!
It was great to meet you and learn more about your path & decision making. Talking to you made me even more excited about the program and I'm feeling very energized about it.

I might have further questions for you down the road, but meanwhile, since you mentioned you're recruiting right now, the company that I'm with is ClickUp, and we do have an open product manager role available. https://clickup.com/careers?gh_jid=4698902004
Here's the LinkedIn https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/3515531247

The company is a project management software for teams, and is definitely in a sweet spot that's scaling rapidly and plans to IPO in the next 2 years (raised a 400 mil round at the end of 2021). Also has been recently focusing on adding AI applications to its product. 

Let me know if this is interesting for you - I personally don't work with the core product teams, since I spend most of my work on the website with the web engineering teams, but I'd be happy to lend a hand.

Warmly,
Mason

Email 9:
Hi Andrew!
It was great to speak with you today for a bit to celebrate, thanks for calling! I'm super excited to have gotten this wonderful news from Booth and would love to schedule a time to get to know you, your career journey, and your experience at Booth.

As I mentioned, Kellogg was the only school that accepted me in R1 so I had been gearing up to go for the past few months, but now I'm definitely re-thinking my decision!!

I'm generally available in the afternoons next Tuesday, Wednesday or Friday. Otherwise, let me know if you have another preference!

Thank you very much for your time,
Mason

Email 10:
Hey Natalie
Happy 2023!
Been working a whole past month on the google ads campaigns and tried a few configurations already since end of November. However, the campaigns just aren't spending money and getting super low impressions. I just did a complete revamp of the campaign structure.

Meanwhile, I'm thinking to get some help through here to see if I'm missing anything:
https://www.google.com/grants/get-help/nonprofit-marketing-immersion/

Wanted to let you know I'll be applying for that through the form (it could take a few days up to 3 months to be matched with a volunteer). 

If you're curious to know what I've been doing I log a few notes here every time I work in the account. 

Mason
