Sample 1: 

Project Description & Goal
Lead growth SEO programmatic process buildout and launch(es) for MarketerHire that will see XXX (pending SEO & database audit) pages published with a projected XXX traffic per month. Concept 1 will be the role cluster pages, ie: “[Marketer Role] for [Company Type/Size/Industry]”.

Key Assumptions
There exists ample search demand and role types for MarketerHire that a programmatic build makes sense
Current tech stack will not be a hindrance, or approval of additional software will be quick
I will have access to quick approval and developer assistance to launch the pages if CMS doesn’t make it easy. 

Roadmap
A full concept usually takes 2 months but we can try to rush it in 1 month.

Phase
Objectives
Key Results
Est. Time Commitment
1
Audit & Strategy
Deep Dive into Marketing Assets & databases
Deep Dive into Brand guidelines
Deep Dive into former SEO strategies
Meetings with team
Concept 1 Decision & Keyword/Topics Mapped
20 hours
2
Develop Page template
Develop AI Prompts
Develop workflow
Develop content database
Workflow Set Up, Sample Pages Tested & Approved
40 hours
3
QA of final content
Internal links
Final check
Execute final content



Concept 1 Fully Launched XXX Pages
10 hours


Optional Phases Below




4
Operationalize & improve process
Review data
Optimization of live pages
SOPs & Dashboards
20-30 hours
5
Concept 2
Rinse & Repeat
Launch XXXX Pages
50 hours/concept
6+
Handoff the entire process, training team and off-boarding 
?
?


Deliverables
Full launch of Concept 1, with XXX pages each containing 1000 words+ unique content capable of ranking on the SERPs
Processes & workflows shared with the MH team
Optimization & future launch suggestions
SEO Audit

Fees and Schedule
Concept 1’s launch is proposed to be $12,000 for a full build of Phase 1-3.
$6,000 due at start of engagement
$6,000 due after successful launch of Phase 3

Since you mentioned a 1 month deadline, I will try to rush it. The earliest I can guarantee launch is September 18. Since I’ll be starting my MBA program September 11, I’ll need at least 1 week afterwards in case it gets busy

Additional phases to be discussed, I’m particularly interested in continuing to develop innovative growth plays for MarketerHire that extend beyond AI programmatic, so I wanted to put it out there.


###

Sample 2:
When I was a professional violinist, I worked with Music for Food, a Boston-based nonprofit. Its mission: unite musicians and combat food insecurity by organizing musician-led benefit concerts for selected food pantries. What made this experience meaningful was the active engagement with a local food pantry. Musicians like me visited the pantry, forging a connection with pantry volunteers who attended our concerts to advocate for their cause.

Initially, I served as an educational fellow, visiting middle and high schools in Boston. Our mission was to ignite passion and inspire students to organize their own Music for Food concerts. Witnessing these young minds channel their creativity into fundraising events was incredibly gratifying, knowing that they were becoming the future leaders committed to social impact.

Later, I secured a grant to establish a Music for Food chapter in Washington DC. My quartet organized three successful concerts in partnership with the University of Maryland, generating enough funds to provide 15,000 meals in the metro-DC area.

This long collaboration with Music for Food exposed me to diverse groups—students of all ages, minorities, low-income households, nonprofit organizers, and volunteers. This journey defined my music career where I always made a conscious choice to integrate this concept, visiting schools and underserved organizations to share our music.


###

Sample 3:

In the early 2020s, performing organizations were in shambles. Musicians were confused, afraid, and helpless— their concert engagements for the upcoming year canceling one-by-one. However, I was lucky because I had built up some marketing skills– skills that could help out my struggling colleagues. So, I decided to test these marketing strategies to see if they could work in the music industry. 

After a month of brainstorming, recording, and setting up software, I built an MVP marketing system using the Facebook Ads platform to advertise myself as a music teacher. After launching these ads, I brought on 7 new recurring violin students within a few short weeks. It worked! I was so elated and knew this system was the key to help my colleagues stay afloat financially.

So, I started teaching them how to implement this marketing system to get new online students, and to my amazement, each one of them got better results than me. It was the first time I had gone semi-viral — referrals were contacting me every day and I went on multiple sales calls a week.

Seeing my colleagues empowered after building their marketing funnels, seeing them light up with excitement about Zapier automations (just a month before nobody had even heard about Facebook’s ad platform), I realized a potential for a true calling— to amplify and apply my experience in business and marketing to the classical music industry and help my fellow musicians.

My limited knowledge of business held me back from doing more, and was the principal reason I pivoted to SEO and spent a year at a startup, ClickUp. I wanted to see how teams were built and at the same time participate in a company with a very strong mission. I also thought with these extra skills I could help professional musicians to get noticed and locate more opportunities. However, I realized the problem is much bigger than what SEO is capable of solving. That issue is more large-scale across the industry and requires marketing and strategy, where I need to join a major organization to bring impact. That’s why I am applying for the Booth School of Business to make this possible. 

My immediate short-term goal during and after the MBA would be to take on a more strategic role as a product marketing manager at a musical technology organization, such as Spotify or SoundCloud. This way, I can get more experience solving big picture problems, as well as get closer to the artists and the creator economy without completely departing from working in software, which I have spent the last year immersed in. Booth’s emphasis on analytical skills as well as leadership will be instrumental in helping me develop these hard skills to operate a technology team at a more strategic level. Additionally, Booth’s connections with some of these companies through summer internships and the Kilts Center for Marketing will be great resources for opportunities and development. 

At the same time, I won’t forget my long term goal, which is to direct a prominent musical organization, such as Chamber Music America or Music Teachers National Association. Booth’s required LEAD program will help me develop and understand my leadership style and get first-hand feedback on how others perceive me. Also, I’m very excited for the prospect of participating in the Net Impact Board Fellows program, where I’ll get experience serving on a board and helping develop a strategic initiative. This will give me insights into working in non-profit leadership and tackling the challenges that arise there, preparing me for the many challenges of leading a music organization.


An MBA is as much about personal growth as it is about professional development. In addition to sharing your experience and goals in terms of career, we’d like to learn more about you outside of the office. Use this opportunity to tell us something about who you are. (250-word minimum)


I have long had my challenges with communication. 

When I was a kid, a psychologist said I had the mental capacity of a child half my age because unlike other noisy kids, I spent my days strangely silent.

Another time, I went up to the stage at an evening concert to introduce my colleagues and the first words out of my mouth were: “Good morning!”

When communication just isn’t working for me, I would always lament that humans weren’t mind readers. But as I reflect back, I see how communication has been a huge influence in my life, a tool that has brought my diverse worlds together. 

My deepest foray into communication was during my 10-year career as violinist of the Omer Quartet. Performing on stage with thousands watching, speaking in schools and community centers, having performances broadcasted across radio— these are not situations for a shy person. But, it is where I discovered the power of communication. 

Communication in music comes through multiple mediums. It’s not just about musical communication– where organized sound evokes feelings, moods, and personalities. There’s these other mediums:
collaborative communication– communicating through working with others and making tough decisions
silent communication– knowing my colleagues so well that I know how to react to every movement and gesture
public communication– convincing the audience that the music is important

A great concert comes out of successful unification of these communication mediums. 

For example, it’s not enough for me to feel the music– I need to collaborate with my colleagues to get on the same page on how a particular phrase should go. Then, in order to develop silent communication, we need multiple repetitions and practice. That way, any spontaneous change in performance could have an appropriate response. 

It’s not enough that the quartet is in sync– when we visit people in hospice care, give demonstrations to children’s assemblies, or provide entertainment to homeless shelters we need to rely on excellent public communication. Otherwise, people won’t pay attention no matter how great we play.

Something magical happens when all of these different communication mediums unify: the experience becomes powerful for both audience and performer. Our concerts would be described by formerly unconvinced audiences as mesmerizing and electrifying. Prison inmates would tear up, recalling distant memories. Kids would have longer attention spans. European and Middle Eastern audiences would be moved by a performance from an American quartet. For a moment, worldly concerns and conflicts would cease to exist.

What I’ve learned in my deep exploration of musical communication is that communicative harmony is the way to bring connection between people of radically diverse backgrounds. 

I’ve taken this mindset towards communication even after leaving my performing career. After getting married, I realized I could not communicate with my parents-in-law, who live in Korea and can hardly speak English. In order to foster a better relationship, I’ve been taking rigorous Korean language immersion classes. At work, I’ve been honing my skills in marketing— the business of communication. For me, this is not only about the written word but also fostering relationships with many companies. This includes partnering with competitors. 

It’s become apparent to me that going all-in on communication is key to uniting people. My ultimate goal as a strategic marketing leader after completing my MBA is to create demand for the music I spent so much time in and where I saw the greatest communicative power. In order to do that, it’s imperative to break down the elitist narrative that’s being communicated from the classical music industry. Everyone needs to experience what I felt while I was in music– that concerts are a persuasive communicative medium for people to reconnect with their humanity.


###

Sample 4: 

ClickUp is an all-in-one productivity platform used by 800,000+ teams of all types and sizes to organize multiple workflows, centralize company knowledge, and improve cross-functional collaboration. Marketing and SEO teams scale content with faster project handoffs by leveraging ClickUp’s robust suite of features.

Note: If the “About ClickUp” section starts this article, we should include “Before SurferSEO” as an H2. However, if the below starts the entire piece, we don’t need an H2 

It’s a common assumption: ClickUp is an authoritative site, so content optimization and ranking content must be a breeze. 

While being blessed with ClickUp’s brand presence does help organic performance, ClickUp is a relatively new player in the project management space and we have huge SEO competitors with more authority and established trust. 

Content optimization and content quality are paramount to blog performance and it becomes much more granular and thoughtful. After all, how do you beat great articles published by Forbes or HubSpot?
How SurferSEO Powers Content Operations at ClickUp

I joined ClickUp in early 2021, and although we were a new SEO team of three, our biggest task was to manage the performance of 500+ existing articles and ideate new topics for our blog. 

At the time, our team had access to some of the foundational SEO tech stack, but we had to build out our content optimization process. The tool we inherited did not meet our needs because it only provided surface-level recommendations like “add 3-5 mentions of XYZ keyword.” Additionally, it did not share in-depth reasoning behind its  recommendations nor allow custom tweaks to data sources.

Because of these limitations, we resorted to manual analysis and intuition to make our recommendations and updates to our blogs. While this is a great exercise in building SEO skills (and I highly recommend every SEO to go through this process), it just wasn’t resource efficient. 

It soon became clear we needed a powerful content intelligence tool to help scale our blog optimization process with a fail-proof roadmap for the future. 

Great SEO recommendations during keyword research and content creation
Aggregated data for insights into the SERP (Search Engine Results Page) without manually checking each result
Multiple views  to visualize SERP data to form hypotheses
Simpler way to optimize content and track real-time edits

That's why we chose SurferSEO!
Solution #1: Actionable Data for SEOs
After comparing some well-known content intelligence tools, SurferSEO was the clear winner. 

In our analysis, other tools seemed to be built mainly for writers, but SurferSEO was made for both SEOs and writers. For example, while other content intelligence tools would tell us that we had top scores for hitting all the right keywords in our content, SurferSEO provides much more detail. 

Take Minuttia’s SEO case study of ClickUp— we’re cited with an A+ from Clearscope for our blog, 10 Examples of Professional Goals for Work. An A+ score implies we are done and have nothing else to improve. This is definitely something to celebrate, but what if we need further ideas to keep improving the blog? What we really wanted to know were other ranking factors and ideas to test out in case we needed to optimize content beyond a content score.

Analyzing the same article, Surfer’s Content Editor gives us nifty insights into different categories: word count, headings, paragraphs, and images. 


Even if we had a score of 100 from the Content Editor, I can still test several hypotheses if the performance of our article ever declined:

We may need more headings to make the article more skimmable for users
Due to high word count, we may have fluff in our content and content pruning could be something to consider

If I wanted to dig deeper, Surfer’s Audit Tool tells us even more granular information!

This helps me with several more ideas:

We may have too many GIFs or images in our article, causing slower loading speeds
We may need to be more descriptive in our sub-headings to help the reader




My colleague and ClickUp’s SEO Specialist, Adele Payant agrees the SEO Audit feature is extremely helpful in her daily optimizations.

“For each optimization, I would say that Surfer's Audit tool saves me about an hour. I always start out my optimizations with the Audit feature to get an overview of how the content is stacking up compared to competitors. The content score is really useful because it can help me identify if a page has content or topical issues or if I need to look elsewhere.”

Adele further explains: “For example, if our content score is significantly lower than the other pages in the SERP, I know off the bat that the content needs improvement, whereas if the content score is in-line with the other players in the SERP, I know to start looking for other things, such as missing common backlinks, internal link gaps, or images.”

One of the interesting aspects of the Audit Tool is we can determine what ingredients go into its analyzing algorithm by selecting specific  competitors to compare. 

For example, sometimes, you’ll have a mixed SERP and SurferSEO allows you full control of which results to include in its comparison. 

We compared a poor-performing blog article against other top performing articles ranking for the “enterprise project management software” keyword. In the 5th result, Wrike’s landing page was included. This page serves as an entirely different intent and thus should be excluded. With a simple click, SurferSEO allowed us to make this modification and not include their page in our analysis.



Note: SurferSEO has a guide on how to choose which competitors to include in your analysis.
Solution #2: Improved Visibility For Writers to Manage Work
SurferSEO provides a range of tools ClickUp writers love like the Keyword Surfer Chrome Extension! Writers easily associate a document or WordPress page with a keyword analyzed by SurferSEO. This saves time and mental bandwidth from having to switch between tabs to check content quality, and keeps written content in one place as a single source of truth. 

“The Chrome Extension ticked all my boxes: fail-proof WordPress and Google Docs integration, instant quality score ratings, and multi-keyword assessments,” says Erica Golightly, ClickUp’s Senior Writer. “When I have brain fog and can’t write the next sentence, I look to the right sidebar for a spark of inspiration.”

Additionally, SurferSEO helps ClickUp’s content and SEO teams stay aligned throughout the entire process.

“The magic of Surfer starts well before I type the first letter,” Golightly adds. “Our blog briefs come with a shared Content Editor link created by the SEO team, so there’s no misinterpretation of the blog's intent. From there, I can take advantage of the research they’ve put together and get to work. I can save about 3 hours per blog during the writing process, from the first draft to the published piece.”

This leads me into my next point. 
Solution #3: Multiple Use Cases Throughout Content Lifecycle 
We found ourselves easily adopting SurferSEO in different points of our existing SEO project management process in ClickUp to reduce scope creep. If we follow along our content lifecycle, here’s how the tool fits in:
Content Planning
We begin each article as a keyword research ClickUp task and it’s here the SEO team conducts research using SurferSEO. 

With difficult keywords, I like SurferSEO’s SERP Analyzer, which provides the most granular details out of all the SurferSEO features. While it can sometimes feel overwhelming and many of the same details show up in the Audit or Content Editor features, this tool allows me to consider different ranking or content factors. Its flexible data visualization also allows me to digest information from the SERPs and think about the keyword in a more holistic way.

For example, if I were to try to target the keyword “project management software”, I would see that higher word counts don’t necessarily mean higher rankings due to the U-shaped curve. But in order to have a better chance at ranking, I still need to shoot for a target word count between 4,000-5,000.



Looking under the graph, the various tabs help me to consider different content angles: What questions are people asking? What common words or phrases repeatedly appear in articles? Sometimes looking at the SERP analyzer helps me determine whether a keyword is worth targeting.
Content Drafting
After the initial keyword research is complete, we create a blog brief for our writers on ClickUp Docs. It’s here the writers are provided a SurferSEO Content Editor link to check for a target content score, among other considerations. 



“The Content Editor is a useful tool when making briefs. It helps me compare articles to see what headers should be included, gives a general word count, and provides terms that should be included other than just the keywords I find in my keyword research. It's a great place to start your process if you are making briefs,” Adele Payant shares. 
Content Maintenance
After the blog is written and published, the task moves to our robust content database to monitor performance. 

When the SEO team deems an article needs an update or optimization, the same task is pushed to a different optimization view where we take action on these updates, and keep track of our results. 

After 4-6 weeks have passed, we log all of the results of our optimizations in the same view. As you can see, we used SurferSEO many times to optimize a piece of content, resulting in multiple wins!


Keeping an article’s historical record is great for future learning and improvement! In addition, all the research and communication by the SEO and content teams live in the same task, so work is fully transparent and accessible to everyone.

With this very organized SEO project management system and blog content database in ClickUp, we’re able to employ SurferSEO’s full suite of capabilities. 
Results
With SurferSEO powering ClickUp's content operations, we grew organic, non-branded traffic by 85%, published 150+ blogs, and completed 130+ optimizations!

We had several key articles where SurferSEO was an instrumental tool in its improvement:

One of ClickUp’s top articles generating thousands of visits per month and bringing many hundreds of conversions was losing its top position. We implemented a SurferSEO makeover and saw an 8% traffic increase and 50% more product sign ups
One of ClickUp’s pillar articles very relevant to our industry was ranking very poorly (in position 70’s). We used the Content Editor to improve the content score from 53 to 89, as well as restructured and reformatted the blog per SurferSEO recommendations and saw an immediate improvement to the blog’s average rank to the top of page 2 
One of our articles with conversion potential was ranking anywhere between positions 30-90. We saw a big opportunity to feature more templates and examples to our content, and implemented these ideas aided by SurferSEO. The blog subsequently saw a traffic increase of 1334% and started generating conversions 

There is no doubt that SurferSEO has been instrumental in keeping the quality of our content high. With both SEOs and writers at ClickUp bought in, it allows us to keep efficient workflows and aligns our teams on SEO best practices. 

Give SurferSEO a try today to see what insights you’re missing out about your competition!

###

Sample 5:
Is there a way to generate new music students for your teaching studio on autopilot?
Hi, I’m Mason, professional classical violinist, string quartet player and expert digital marketer. I’d like to show you guys the exact process I used to build my online teaching studio from scratch. Click play to watch this very important video. 

VIDEO
REGISTER FOR COURSE

In my vast experience working in the classical music industry, I’ve found that it’s usually very difficult to get new music students without relying on word-of-mouth referrals or lead generation sites like Thumbtack or TakeLessons. 

What if you just moved to a new place? Or maybe you’re a new teacher? Now you have to play politics with the local teaching scene. Maybe you ask a favor from a colleague who doesn’t really want to help you… Maybe you play in the local symphony to “network.” Maybe you create some posters… join Facebook groups… join a church… list yourself on those low quality directory sites that take a cut of each lesson or force you to drive down your prices...

Maybe you do all of these things.

You wait.

And you wait.

You jump at the chance of one lead… one trial lesson.

Maybe you don’t hear anything in months.

All the while thinking… I’m a great musician and teacher… Is there a better way to get students who are interested in what I have to teach?

Well, YES there is.

I’m offering you the opportunity to learn to build your own student acquisition system that utilizes Facebook ads so you can start getting new students on autopilot. Best yet, you can get new ONLINE students and charge your FULL prices, without giving a cut away. 

I’ve created a very thorough online course that teaches you how to build this system from A-Z. 
REGISTER FOR COURSE

Who am I and why should you trust me? 

I’m a musician, inside and out. I’ve been playing the violin and piano for nearly 25 years, and been in the professional scene over 10 years. I play with an award-winning quartet that can be heard at many of the major concert series in the nation. 

On the side, I’ve been running an online marketing agency for several years, building lead generation systems for companies and businesses. I have clients all over the nation in industries such as landscaping, data recovery, towing and medical spas. 

You see, when COVID-19 started, all of my concerts were cancelled, as I’m sure it was for you. I was feeling sorry for myself and wondering about my life as a musician, and then thought… Can I create these same lead generation systems for myself to get violin students?

I quickly built this marketing system to attract students from all over the country, and amazingly, I got nearly 20 trial lessons booked within a month, and onboarded 9 students with the majority of them PREPAYING for a 5-lesson package. 

This was during the height of COVID-19 when we were hearing doomsday predictions about the national economy… People were still willing to pay for lessons, and pay the prices that I set!

I started teaching this to other musicians who were my close friends to make sure my success wasn’t just a fluke. They also generated results within days of launching this system!

That’s when I knew… All musicians NEED to know about this!

This system is so simple, I can describe it in a single sentence. 

I run an ad targeting my ideal student who then schedules a trial lesson on my calendar.

It sounds so easy… why would you need a course? Oh..Of course, you know that there are probably a hundred steps that go into it which can get you into problems. So that’s why, I’m offering you the opportunity to build this exact system by following me step by step. In this course, there are nearly 30 videos I’ve recorded where I am building the system in front you. 

I will have worksheets, thought provoking questions, and you’ll have the opportunity to schedule some consultations with me so I can ensure you are taking the right steps and that you are presenting yourself as uniquely YOU.

Because I know that you are different.

You’re probably thinking… Great, this system worked for Mason, but will it work for ME?

Let me ask you this: Do you fit one of the categories below?

Are you really good at your instrument and want to start teaching it?

Do you already have students and just want to expand your studio online?

Then this system can work for you. 

But before you enroll, here’s what you should think about. Because I want everyone to be a success story.

You need to be confident in your abilities on your instrument and that you can teach it
You need to have a budget of several hundred $$ to achieve significant results; we are using Facebook PAID advertising and several premium software. 
That means, you should NOT enroll in this course if you are dependant on it to put food on your table
You need to be an ACTION TAKER, willing to work and build this system all the way to the end. You shouldn’t start if you’re not going to hit the ground running
If you’re shy, that’s ok, but you will probably need to come out of your shell a bit
You need to have an abundance mindset that there are people who want your expertise as a teacher, because there ARE.

What you should expect from this course. 

You will learn a new system to be able to generate students that you can turn on and off any time you want
You will be able to track exactly how much it costs to generate one appointment and to onboard one student
You will clarify your identity as a teacher and learn how to package that into various media including videos and ad copy
You will be learning how to use landing page software, automation tools, and Facebook advertising; all skills that I use to charge businesses thousands of $$ per month.
You will gain access to blueprint files and in-depth video sessions where I explain every step of the way and show my screen where I build a new system from scratch
You will have access to consultations with me to receive personalized and customized guidance and feedback about your specific situation
You will have access to a private Facebook group of other musicians who are going through the same process as you, and some extra bonus tips and discoveries from me


###

Sample 6

Job Interview: Tell me about yourself

So, I began the first 8 years of my career as a professional violinist where I founded a classical string quartet and we performed all over the world for all kinds of audiences. Through that experience I learned a lot about entrepreneurship, operations, sales, and working with a diverse group of people. 

But during my time there, I came against major problem in the classical industry. Why weren’t more people coming to our concert – our music performance was seriously some of the highest quality “product” but we were just known and respected within musician circles. My hypothesis was that I was missing skills in marketing. 

So to test this hypothesis, I founded a digital marketing agency helping local service businesses build their marketing and gain more customers while I performed during the day. Having these two experiences side-by-side was really eye-opening. My marketing skills and the “product” I was selling was quite low quality, yet was actually generating strong interest, while here on the music side, I was struggling to get interest for this really high quality product. This was really where I started learning about the important priorities of really understanding customers and their experiences and needs and is when I fell in love with technology and growth strategies.  

When I left music, I had the opportunity to strengthen my marketing skills at ClickUp, a late stage startup, and through this experience, I got a chance to work with engineers, product managers, and strategists. And it was here that I noticed that product is where all the action was at, because not only does a strong product that’s actually customer informed solve real problems, but also that it was a marketing flywheel. 

This is why I’m at Booth: I’m deepening skills as a joint computer science and MBA student so that I can re-enter the technology industry as a product manager who has both the technical know-how and the business experience to really create this impact.


30 second version of Tell me about yourself:

I spent the first 8 years of my career as a professional violinist, founding a string quartet and performing worldwide. However, even though we had a strong product and was well known amongst musician circles, I was always wondering why there was a lack of audiences. And so this led me to discover the importance of marketing and understanding customer needs and experience. My exploration led me to found a digital marketing agency while I was performing during the day, and then later, after I left music, I further developed my marketing skills at ClickUp, a late-stage startup. It was there I got a chance to work with engineering teams and saw the impact of a strong product, both in terms of features but also in terms of solving real user problems. 

So, I really wanted to be in the product organization where I could use some of my marketing background but actually influence the product itself. Now, as a joint computer science and MBA student at Booth, I'm really gaining that foundation in development and leadership to be able to make a significant impact.


###
Sample 7

Please briefly describe why you are interested in taking this course, New Products and Services Lab:

This class will help clarify the intersection between entrepreneurship and product management. I'm particularly interested in learning how discovering/launching new products for these clients differ from my own experience as a former founder, where I launched an online course, found & led a string quartet, and launched my digital marketing agency. In all those cases, my team was either just me or small, where I could make decisions quickly and pivot with agility. I'd like to see how agility and product iteration works in a larger client setting, and what it means to work cross functionally and to discover customer needs in a more formal setting. 

I've been studying the theory of discovering, developing, and releasing products, and am eager to get hands-on, real experience in this class. Since product management is my next career goal, I'll undoubtedly draw a lot from this lab experience. Really looking forward to the mentorship from Professor Middlebrooks, visiting faculty & peers.


Personal Travel:
One weekend in early February, to visit my wife in St. Paul, which will be flexible around weeks 4-5 & 7-8 requirements. Since it's an easy plane trip away I can plan around this.

Work commitments:
Contract basis - flexible working hours
- 10 hours/week, mostly during 1-2 weeknights and some weekends. 

###
Sample 8

Dear Hiring Manager,

As a current MBA with a strong interest and hands-on experience in AI technologies, I am excitedly writing for the chance to join TikTok’s Creative AI product team as a Product Manager Intern (Generative AI). My experiences as a digital advertising expert, along with my growing technical background, cross-functional collaboration skills and experiences with GenAI, align precisely with the job description, making me a unique addition to your innovative team.

Having spent substantial time in digital advertising and programmatic content creation, I've encountered many of the same issues and problems that advertisers face when running large-scale and targeted campaigns. I'm eager to help build AI-assisted solutions that can address these pain points of stakeholders such as agency and business owners, and help improve upon some of TikTok's AI tools such as SmartFix & Creative Assistant. I'm comfortable relating to advertising executives in customer interviews and discovery processes, and will be able to help shape Tiktok's future strategic positioning on short-form video advertising.

Notably, I’ve gravitated towards Generative AI and its potential. At my last company, ClickUp, I successfully led a GenAI solution for our internal team to deploy programmatic SEO. My initial pilot utilized simple scripts, Regex, and a relational database serving as a mini LLM, so that I could prove the concept and value. This pilot culminated in an app during a hackathon that I led, where I was able to work across teams. I effectively communicated and collaborated with executive team members, product managers, and engineers to refine product requirements and accelerate product launch. Consequently, we were able to churn out our MVP in record time.

I am extremely passionate about broadening my experience from just textual GenAI to new mediums of GenAI such as text-to-video, digital avatars, and generative music. This has the potential to even further disrupt the creative industry. I've already seen the massive benefits unlocked by AI in terms of internal productivity, reducing costs, and fostering innovation; in fact, I've helped develop some of these tools. I want to be part of the team that spearheads this revolution at TikTok.

Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to discussing further.

Sincerely,
Mason


###
Sample 9

Hello Google!

I'm excited to apply for the Product Management internship at Google and help contribute to your mission to bring the "Next Billion Users." As a joint-degree student pursuing an MBA and Masters in Computer Science at the University of Chicago, my passion lies at the intersection of technology, business, and innovation. My collaborative vision, combined with my user-focused approach and scale thinking, helps position me as an ideal candidate for Google's product team.

Both my academic background and industry experiences have prepared me to take on the challenges at Google. Recent work at ClickUp and my entrepreneurial pursuits allowed me to apply the theoretical frameworks from my studies to real-world situations. Most notably, my contribution to a GenAI solution at ClickUp to deploy programmatic SEO, demonstrates my ability to manage complex technical tasks, collaborate with product & engineering teams, and grapple with significant issues.

Being concerned for the user has always been my default and is continually being refined. Launching an online course designed to help musicians with marketing, I intimately acquainted myself with users' genuine needs and familiarity with tech. By facilitating beta testers’ feedback and iterative improvements, I ensured that each element of this course exceptionally served its target audience. It was incredibly rewarding to hear musicians enthusiastic about email automation and connected workflows. This customer discovery skill will be helpful at Google to create products that can combat accessibility issues and make the internet more inclusive.

As a former violinist and co-founder of a string quartet, I have also cultivated a strong sense of scale thinking and collaboration. Having successfully turned a small group of musicians into a string quartet that was highly sought after by presenters and fans, I fully understand the challenges and opportunities of deep, personal teamwork. It is this collaborative yet big thinking mindset that I believe will help realize Google's audacious goals.

I look forward to connecting with you!
Mason


###

Sample 10

What has been your most meaningful experience either working with or being impacted by a nonprofit in the past? (~150 words)


When I was a professional violinist, I worked with Music for Food, a Boston-based nonprofit. Its mission: unite musicians and combat food insecurity by organizing musician-led benefit concerts for selected food pantries. What made this experience meaningful was the active engagement with a local food pantry. Musicians like me visited the pantry, forging a connection with pantry volunteers who attended our concerts to advocate for their cause.

Initially, I served as an educational fellow, visiting middle and high schools in Boston. Our mission was to ignite passion and inspire students to organize their own Music for Food concerts. Witnessing these young minds channel their creativity into fundraising events was incredibly gratifying, knowing that they were becoming the future leaders committed to social impact.

Later, I secured a grant to establish a Music for Food chapter in Washington DC. My quartet organized three successful concerts in partnership with the University of Maryland, generating enough funds to provide 15,000 meals in the metro-DC area.

This long collaboration with Music for Food exposed me to diverse groups—students of all ages, minorities, low-income households, nonprofit organizers, and volunteers. This journey defined my music career where I always made a conscious choice to integrate this concept, visiting schools and underserved organizations to share our music.




Describe an experience you've had navigating an ambiguous situation (either personal or professional), and how you approached clarifying expectations for both yourself and others? 



I was approached by a small services agency seeking assistance with outreach. They originally aimed to hire a full-time employee, but I enjoyed my current role so didn't want to leave. Despite the initial disconnect, I sensed a strong alignment with their needs after multiple discussions with the co-founders.

To address the vague next steps, I proposed a contracting arrangement, gauging their response. While they showed interest, they suggested a service-based model (paying me per deliverable), which would have limited my role to a tactical contractor, contrary to my aspiration for a more strategic position. In response, I presented a comprehensive two-page proposal outlining my responsibilities, how I would enhance their organization, and my desired compensation.

This proposal positioned me as a part-time strategic leader capable of expanding their function while reducing the overall cost per deliverable, which contrasted with the initial idea of a straightforward contracting position. I articulated why the original concept fell short and how this new contract, though pricier than a standard contracting role, would better serve their business.

They appreciated the clarity and the logic in my argument, and I got what I wanted. Consequently, the role evolved into a hybrid contractor-part-time-advisor position. The originally ambiguous situation proved beneficial as it led to significant breakthroughs in the company, ultimately resulting in a mutually beneficial outcome.





What motivates you to be a Board Fellow, and what are you hoping to gain from the experience? (<250 words) 


I aspire to establish and manage a concert series or music organization in the future and the Board Fellow program will help me view this from the other side of what I’m used to. Throughout my career as a professional musician, I never had the opportunity to delve into the inner workings of nonprofit boards and management teams. I was always curious about their fundraising strategies and the processes behind appointing board chairs and leadership roles. 

In addition, I predominantly collaborated with or was hired by smaller nonprofits, which often meant less structured board organizations and board members who were actively involved in day-to-day operations. As I embark on this journey as a Board Fellow, my primary objective is to acquire valuable experience and forge connections within the greater Chicago area. I am eager to collaborate with individuals who share a passion for making a meaningful impact.

Through the experience as a Board Fellow, I also anticipate gaining experience to the unique challenges that these organizations face, such as limited resources, multiple stakeholders, and adapting to technology. 



Becoming a Board Fellow holds great significance for me as I’d like to one day establish and manage a future concert series or music organization. My motivation for participating in this program stems from a desire to make a big impact on arts organizations to serve their communities with greater resonance. Throughout my career as a professional musician, I remained immersed in the creative aspects of music, but I never had the chance to delve into the inner workings of nonprofit boards and actually help make the strategic decisions. 

I've often found myself intrigued by the decision-making processes behind marketing strategies and fundraising activities. Having predominantly collaborated with smaller nonprofits, I've observed their unique dynamics, often marked by less formalized board structures and hands-on board members deeply involved in day-to-day operations.

As a Board Fellow, I’m looking to acquire practical experience in navigating these intricacies while also forging meaningful connections within the Chicago nonprofit community. I look forward to collaborating with like-minded individuals who share my passion for effecting positive change.

I anticipate gaining invaluable insights into the difficult barriers faced by these organizations, including limited resources, the need to manage multiple stakeholders, and technology change. This experience will provide me with a big picture understanding of the nonprofit world so that I can take that experience and lead effectively in my future endeavors.

